tripleo-upgrade
=========

This role aims to provide a unified tool for upgrading TripleO based deploments.

Requirements
------------

This role requires:

* An ansible inventory file containing reacheable undercloud and overcloud nodes

* Nodes in the inventory file are placed in groups based on their roles (e.g compute nodes are part of the 'compute' group)

* Repositories containing packages to be upgraded are already installed on undercloud and overcloud nodes

* The initial overcloud deploy command is placed in a script file located in the path set by the overcloud_deploy_script var. Each option/environment file should be placed on a separate new line, e.g:

    source ~/stackrc
    export THT=/usr/share/openstack-tripleo-heat-templates/

    openstack overcloud deploy --templates $THT \
    -r ~/openstack_deployment/roles/roles_data.yaml \
    -e $THT/environments/network-isolation.yaml \
    -e $THT/environments/network-management.yaml \
    -e $THT/environments/storage-environment.yaml \
    -e ~/openstack_deployment/environments/nodes.yaml \
    -e ~/openstack_deployment/environments/network-environment.yaml \
    -e ~/openstack_deployment/environments/disk-layout.yaml \
    -e ~/openstack_deployment/environments/neutron-settings.yaml \
    --log-file overcloud_deployment.log &> overcloud_install.log

Role Variables
--------------

Available variables are listed below:

    overcloud_deploy_script: "~/overcloud_deploy.sh"

Location of the initial overcloud deploy script.

    undercloud_upgrade_script: "~/undercloud_upgrade.sh"

Location of the undercloud upgrade script which is going to be generated by this role.

    overcloud_composable_upgrade_script: "~/composable_docker_upgrade.sh"

Location of the upgrade script used in the composable docker upgrade step which is going to be generated by this role.

    overcloud_converge_upgrade_script: "~/converge_docker_upgrade.sh"

Location of the upgrade script used in the converge docker upgrade step which is going to be generated by this role.

    undercloud_rc: "~/stackrc"

Location of the undercloud credentials file.

    overcloud_rc: "~/overcloudrc"

Location of the overcloud credentials file.

    upgrade_workarounds: false

Allows the user to apply known issues workarounds during the upgrade process. The list of patches/commands used for workarounds should be passed via --extra-vars and it should include dictionaries for undercloud/overcloud workarounds.

    use_oooq: false

Set to true when the deployment has been done by tripleo quickstart.

Dependencies
------------

None.

Example Playbook
----------------

An example playbook is provided in tests/test.yml:

    - hosts: all
      gather_facts: true

    - hosts: undercloud
      gather_facts: false
      become: yes
      become_method: sudo
      become_user: stack
      roles:
        - tripleo-upgrade


Usage with tripleo Quickstart
-----------------------------

After a successful deployment with OOOQ, you can create the necessary
scripts using this example playbook (duplicate from
./tests/oooq-test.yaml):

    ---
    - hosts: all
      gather_facts: true

    - hosts: undercloud
      vars:
        - overcloud_deploy_script: overcloud-deploy-command.sh
      gather_facts: false
      become: yes
      become_method: sudo
      become_user: stack
      roles:
      - { role: tripleo-upgrade, use_oooq: 'true'}


And then you run it like this (adjust the paths to your oooq specific
one)

   ANSIBLE_SSH_ARGS="-F $(pwd)/ssh.config.ansible" \
     ANSIBLE_CONFIG=$PWD/ansible.cfg \
     ansible-playbook -i hosts -vvv tripleo-upgrade/tests/oooq-test.yaml

This will only create the file (without running the actual upgrade):
 - undercloud_upgrade.sh
 - container_images_download.sh
 - local_docker_registry_env.sh
 - composable_docker_upgrade.sh
 - overcloud-compute-*_upgrade_pre.sh
 - overcloud-compute-*_upgrade.sh
 - overcloud-compute-*_upgrade_post.sh
 - converge_docker_upgrade.sh

with the correct parameters.

License
-------

BSD

Author Information
------------------

An optional section for the role authors to include contact information, or a website (HTML is not allowed).
